---
title: "Project Eos: Part 1"
thumbnail: "assets/img/thumbnails/eos.jpeg"
feature-img: "assets/img/thumbnails/eos.jpeg"
categories: eos
tags: eos arduino dsp
---

I definitely need more lights!

It is my belief that my apartment is seriously lacking some funk, some punk, and a general lit attitude.
So let's change that, shall we...

I have always been inspired by hackerspaces. The hacker culture (the good one!) and atmosphere is irreparable, but I sort of
want to recreate it in my own home.

So let me introduce: *Project Eos*.
A light system that reacts to music. Dope music...

(Fun fact: In greek mythology, [Eos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eos) is the goddess of dawn/light)

## Gotta have some of them lights

So, how do we go about making such a system?

First we have to decide how the light should behave when it hears sound. Should it go batshit crazy, or be cool and mellow until
the appropriate time? I think the latter sounds better, don't you?

Any signal has three main characteristics: Amplitude, frequency and phase shift.
Phase shift isn't really relevant here, though it can be used for extra effect, but that just sounds like a lot more work.
We can think of amplitude as the strength of the signal, and frequency as the speed of the signal. Those should work fine for
making some cool effects and such.
Amplitude is pretty simple to find out, just use the voltage measured from the microphone. However, frequency is a bit more 
tricky. Have to get back to that...

We need some components to make this project work:
- Microcontroller (I prefer an Arduino for these kind of things, which should have enough compute power)
- Lights (Let's go with some RGB LED-strips. Programmable ones are nice, since we can address each LED individually... mostly)
- Microphone (I have some kits laying around)
- Additional components to support LEDs

A nice 3D printed enclosure would also be nice.

I might also want to upload a custom profile to the Arduino in order to run custom effects on it.
For that I need a WiFi module (to send stuff to the controller), and perhaps a web server to act as
a gateway, instead of connecting directly to the Arduino.

## Summary

So, here is the problems that I need to solve:
- Find out how calculate the frequency of the signal
- Test the lights and make sure that I can control them with the Arduino
- Test the microphones and analyze the output
- Test and implement the WiFi module
- Test and implement the local web server
- (Maybe even use an SD Card to store custom profiles)
- Make a nice little 3D printed enclosure

Well, this is gonna be a bit of work.
